The data set given was a subset from a 2020 spotify database with a row of 1728 songs. There were 26 columns which had different variables which could be better understood using the dictionary provided. These variables included the track name, artist, release date and more. There are 3 basic rules to tidy data which are: each row has an observation, each column is a variable and each value has its own cell. Additionally it is important to keep the flow of the table coherent and avoid any spelling mistakes. This ensures the table is easy to read and that values and variables are always paired. 

After downloading the necessary packages and data, the view function was used to identify potential problems within the dataset and at first glance it was evident that these rules had been broken. 
Firstly, column names were analyzed using the str function and three mistakes were found. There was a typo in “track_name”, the variables called danceability and energy occupied one column and different genres (pop, rap, edm, etc) were placed as variables rather than values. The second mistake went against both rules 1 and 3 whilst the third broke rule 2 of tidy data. The functions used included separate_wider_delim, rename and pivot_longer to fix these mistakes. Furthermore once the genres were classified into their own columns which were called playlist_genre and playlsit_subgenre, several rows had unnecessary  N/A values generated from the pivot_longer function in the column playlist_subgenre which were removed using the filter function.
Next, the suspected list of typos in 5 different artists (Bad Bunny, Shakira, Taylor Swift, Janis Joplin and The Four Owls) were addressed. Using the grep(pattern) function different combinations of these names could be looked at in the dataset. It was discovered that only “Bad Bunny” was present within the 2020 data subset in which it was misspelled as “Bad Sunny”. Other typos included “75” being written instead of the year in some release dates, “r&b” being misspelled as “r.b” and “T” being present in the mode column which is supposed to be “0” or “1” only. By cross referencing the actual release date of these songs it was discovered that “75” had replaced “2019”. Therefore using the mutate and g(sub) function all these typos could be fixed in one large function. 
To improve the organization of the table, the newly created columns: playlist_genre and playlist_subgenre were moved alongside other character columns using the relocate function. They were positioned to be after the playlist_name column and before almost all numeric columns.
There was also a mistake in the values of the track_album_id and playlist_id because they were identical to the track_id which made them incorrect. These columns were completely removed with the select function, as they gave false information and were not necessary for the future colleague using this dataset. 
Finally, there were changes made to the structure of the variables. Mode had previously been changed from a character column to numeric but danceability and energy had remained as a character column despite being numeric. The mutate function was used to change this. The playlist_name was also changed from a character column to a factor column for the colleague who wants to compare the difference in danceability across varying playlists.

With these adjustments the table is now tidy as each variable is paired with its own observation and easy to use for any analysis necessary. All rules of tidy data have been addressed and calculating the average danceability across the playlist should be facilitated for the colleague using this table in the future.
